feat(metrics): .NET (#8970)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/dotnet/metrics/index.mdx

Reviewer: Does .NET support code locations for metrics?
And are there any settings that need to be passed into `init()`?

---
title: Set Up Metrics
description: "Learn how to set up Metrics."
sidebar_order: 9000
---

<PlatformContent includePath="profiling/index/preface" />

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sentry metrics help you pinpoint and solve issues that impact user experience and app performance by measuring the data points that are important to you. You can track things like processing time, event size, user signups, and conversion rates, then correlate them back to tracing data in order to get deeper insights and solve issues faster.

```
It's good to give users a bit of an intro/user benefit :)

> # Emit a counter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Emit a Counter
```

> Counters are the simplest types of metrics. With counters, you can count occurrences of certain events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Counters are one of the more basic types of metrics and can be used to count certain event occurrences.
```

> To emit a counter, you can do as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To emit a counter, do the following:
```

```csharp
// Incrementing a counter by one for each button click.
SentrySdk.Metrics.Increment("ButtonClicked",
    tags: new Dictionary<string, string> {{ "region", "us-west-1" }});
```

> # Emit a set
> 
> Sets are useful for counting unique occurrences. With sets, you can obtain the count of unique elements that you added to it, making them very useful for certain cases.
> 
> To emit a set, you can do as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Emit a Set

Sets are useful for looking at unique occurrences and counting the unique elements you added.

To emit a set, do the following:
```

```csharp
// Adding a set of unique occurrences.
SentrySdk.Metrics.Set("CheckoutCount", 7,
    unit: MeasurementUnit.Custom("items"),
    tags: new Dictionary<string, string> {{ "region", "us-west-1" }});
```

> # Emit a distribution
> 
> Distributions are useful to get the most insights from your data. With distributions, you can obtain aggregations such as `p90`, `min`, `max`, and `avg` making them very powerful.
> 
> To emit a distribution, you can do as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Emit a Distribution

Distributions help you get the most insights from your data by allowing you to obtain aggregations such as `p90`, `min`, `max`, and `avg`.

To emit a distribution, do the following:
```
I'm not sure if there's a logical order to the different "emits", but it would be good to keep the order consistent for all the SDKs- right now, PHP has the following order: [Setup][Emit a counter][Emit a distribution][Emit a set]
[Emit a gauge].

```csharp
// Adding '15' to a distribution used to track the loading time.
SentrySdk.Metrics.Distribution("LoadingTime",
    15,
    unit: MeasurementUnit.Duration.Millisecond,
    tags: new Dictionary<string, string> {{ "region", "us-west-1" }});
```

> # Emit a gauge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Emit a Gauge
```

> 
> Gauges are a special kind of metric. With gauges, you can obtain aggregates like `min`, `max`, `avg`, `sum`, and `count` but no percentiles. You might be wondering why I need gauges if I have distributions that can do the same and more. Well, the answer has to do with space efficiency, since gauges can be represented in a much more space-efficient way, so if you don’t need percentiles, gauges are the way to go.
> 
> To emit a gauge, you can do as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Gauges let you obtain aggregates like `min`, `max`, `avg`, `sum`, and `count`. They can be represented in a more space-efficient way than distributions, but they can't be used to get percentiles. If percentiles aren't important to you, we recommend using gauges.

To emit a gauge, do the following:
```

---
title: Set Up Metrics
description: "Learn how to measure the data points you care about by configuring Metrics in your .NET app."
sidebar_order: 9000
---

> <PlatformContent includePath="profiling/index/preface" />

Reviewer: We should remove this

> <PlatformContent includePath="profiling/index/preface" />

Author: ```suggestion
```
